CogniPath ðŸ§ : AI-Powered Adaptive Learning CompanionProject Type:
Hackathon Entry (48-hour sprint) for Barriers to LearningðŸŽ¯ Core
MissionCogniPath transforms any raw educational material---from articles
and PDFs to websites---into a personalized, multi-modal Learning Hub.
Our mission is to make learning more accessible, interactive, and
genuinely effective for everyone by tackling common barriers to
traditional study.âœ¨ Minimum Viable Product (MVP) FeaturesThis is a list
of the core functionalities implemented within the 48-hour hackathon
timeline:1. Universal Content IngestionInstantly process content from
diverse sources:Raw Text: Paste text directly into the
application.Document Upload: Upload PDF files for processing.Web Links:
Provide URLs for articles or documentation.2. Dynamic Learning Hub
GenerationLeveraging the Gemini Pro API, CogniPath generates a
comprehensive, interactive study environment:Focus Summary: An
AI-generated, concise, and high-impact summary of the source
material.Audio Digest: An AI-generated audio version of the summary for
auditory learners.Interactive Quizzing: Automatically created
multiple-choice questions and digital flashcards for immediate
self-assessment.Concept Weaver (JSON Graph): A structured, data-driven
representation of key concepts and their relationships, ready for
advanced visualization.3. Asynchronous Processing & Modern
UINon-Blocking Backend: Content processing runs asynchronously, ensuring
a responsive user experience (UI doesn\'t freeze).Sleek Interface: Built
with React and MUI, the application features a modern, responsive design
with clear information hierarchy.ðŸš€ Future Scope & Stretch GoalsThese
are key features identified for the project\'s continued
development:Analogy Engine: Simple, one-click analogies for complex
terms to aid deeper understanding.Improved Graph Visualization: Fully
interactive, draggable, and dynamic concept maps.Browser Extension: A
dedicated tool to generate a Learning Hub instantly from any active
webpage.LMS Integration: Connectors for popular Learning Management
Systems (e.g., Canvas, Moodle).Collaborative Learning: Functionality to
share, annotate, and collectively build content hubs.Mobile-Friendly
Application: Dedicated PWA or native mobile support.ðŸ’» Tech
StackComponentTechnologies UsedFrontendReact, TypeScript, MUI (Material
UI), React Router DOM, ViteBackendPython, FastAPI, PydanticAI CoreGemini
Pro API (via Google AI Studio)DeploymentVercel (Frontend), Render
(Backend)âš¡ Quick Start (Local Development)Follow these steps to set up
and run the CogniPath application locally:1. Clone Repositorygit clone
\[YOUR_REPO_URL\] cd cognipath 2. Install DependenciesYou will need
separate environments for the frontend and backend.# Frontend npm
install 3. Start ServicesEnsure your Gemini API key is configured in
your backend environment variables.# Start Frontend (Vite) npm run dev
\# Start Backend (FastAPI) uvicorn main:app \--reload 4. Access
ApplicationOpen your web browser and navigate to:
http://localhost:5173âœ… Hackathon HighlightsFull-Stack Deployment:
Designed and deployed a complete, functional full-stack application
within 48 hours.AI Integration: Successfully implemented a core AI
service using the Gemini Pro API to drive personalized content
generation.User Focus: Priority given to a polished UI/UX, making the
complex AI service accessible and intuitive for the end-user.
